R-ICAM-Q - Bryden & Browne (2016)


Providers
Homeopath
Herbalist
Spiritual healer
Naturopath
Body manipulation therapies (e.g. Bowen/Reiki) 
Therapeutic massage
[add local variants]


Products
Herbs/herbal medicine
Vitamins/minerals
Homeopathic remedies
Non-fluoridated or non-chlorinated water for health purposes
[add local variants]


Self-help practices
Meditation
Yoga or Tai Chi
Detoxification or cleansing diet 
Relaxation techniques or visualization 
Aromatherapy
Any form of traditional or spiritual healing ceremony


[Bach flower remedies, Orthomolecular medicine, Ayurveda, Cannabis oils/CBT',  'Acupuncture/pressure, Crystal healing, Traditional Chinese Medicine, Biofeedback, Osteopathy, Curanderismo, Shiatsu, Megadose vitamins, Distance healing, Anthroposophic medicine, Colloidal silver, Cupping, Reflexology, Dry needling, Ear candling, Hypnotherapy, Mind-body interventions, Oil pulling, Ozone therapy',  'Bowen therapy, Craniosacral therapy]

 Treatments should have no negative side effects
2. It is important to me that treatments are non-toxic
3. Treatments should only use natural ingredients
4. It is important for treatments to boost my immune system
5. Treatments should enable my body to heal itself
6. Treatments should increase my natural ability to stay healthy


7. Treatment providers should treat patients as equal partners
8. Patients should take an active role in their treatment
9. Treatment providers should make all decisions about treatment (r)
10. Treatment providers should help patients make their own decisions about treatment 
11. Treatment providers should control what is talked about during consultations (r)


12. Health is about harmonizing your body, mind and spirit
13. Imbalances in a person’s life are a major cause of illness
14. Treatments should concentrate only on symptoms rather than the whole persona (r) 
15. Treatments should focus on people’s overall well-being
16. I think my body has a natural ability to heal itself
17. There is no need for treatments to be concerned with natural healing powers (r) 
18. I prefer natural remedies to medicine
19. Treatments should make use of modern scientific technology (r)
20. Health is about more than just keeping your body fit

Complementary medicine can be dangerous in that it may prevent people getting proper treatment.
Complementary medicine builds up the body’s own defences, so leading to a permanent cure. (R)
Homoeopathy has been shown again and again to be ineffective as a cure for anything.
Complementary medicine has often saved the lives of patients who were already given up by conventional doctors. (R)
Complementary medicine is superior to conventional medicine in treating chronic ailments such as allergies, headaches, and back pains. (R)

CAM health belief questionnaire - Lie & Boker (2004)

1. The physical and mental health are maintained by an underlying energy or vital force.
2. Health and disease are a reflection of balance between positive life-enhancing forces and negative destructive forces.
3. The body is essentially self-healing and the task of a health care provider is to assist in the healing process.
4. A patient's symptoms should be regarded as a manifestation of a general imbalance or dysfunction affecting the whole body.
5. A patient's expectations, health beliefs and values should be integrated into the patient care process. 
6. Complementary therapies are a threat to public health.[r]
7. Treatments not tested in a scientifically recognized manner should be discouraged.[r]
8. Effects of complementary therapies are usually the result of a placebo effect.[r]
9. Complementary therapies include ideas and methods from which conventional medicine could benefit.
10. Most complementary therapies stimulate the body's natural therapeutic powers.

Holistic complementary and alternative medicine questionnaire - Hyland et al. (2003)

1. Positive thinking can help you fight off a minor illness
2. Complementary medicine should be subject to more scientific testing before it can be accepted by conventional doctors
3. When people are stressed it is important that they are careful about other aspects of their lifestyle as their body already has enough to cope with
4. Complementary medicine can be dangerous in that it may prevent people getting proper treatment
5. The symptoms of an illness can be made worse by depression
6. Complementary medicine should only be used as a last resort when conventional medicine has nothing to offer
7.  If a person experiences a series of stressful life events they are more likely to become ill
8.  It is worthwhile trying complementary medicine before going to the doctor
10. Complementary medicine should only be used in minor ailments and not in the treatment of more
serious illness
11. It is important to find a balance between work and relaxation in order to stay healthy
12. Complementary medicine builds up the body’s own defences, so leading to a permanent cure



Vaccine attitudes/behaviors

Vaccine behaviors - custom question
We would like to know whether you have had certain vaccines. As this is personal information, of course you can choose not to tell us.


Have you had a [COVID-19/flu/hepatitis-B] vaccine?
Response options: 
Yes, without hesitance
Yes, but I was initially hesitant
No, but my hesitance could be overcome in the future
No, and I refuse
I cannot take this vaccine (but would if I could)
Prefer not to answer


Has your child had a MMR vaccine?
Response options: 
Yes, without hesitance
Yes, but I was initially hesitant
No, but my hesitance could be overcome in the future
No, and I refuse
My child cannot take this vaccine (but would if he/she could)
Prefer not to answer

5C vaccine attitudes - Betsch et al. (2018)


To what extent do the following statements reflect your beliefs about [COVID-19/flu/hepatitis-B/MMR] vaccines in general?


I am completely confident that [name] vaccines are safe. [confidence]
My [my child’s/] immune system is so strong, it also protects me [him/her/them] against [name]. [complacency1]
[name] is not so severe that I [my child] should get vaccinated. [complacency2]
Everyday stress prevents me from getting [my child] vaccinated against [name]. [constraints]
When I think about getting [name] [for my child], I weigh benefits and risks to make the best decision possible. [calculation]
When everyone is vaccinated, I don’t [my child doesn’t] have to get vaccinated, too. [r] [collective responsibility

Anti-vaccination attitudes - Lindeman et al. (2022)

1. In general, vaccines are useful (R)
2. I would vaccinate/I have vaccinated my child in accordance with the recommendations (R)
3. Vaccines can contaminate the body
4. Vaccines are a way for pharmaceutical companies to extort money
from people
5. I oppose vaccination because vaccines are not natural ways to treat diseases
6. Vaccination is safe (R)
7. The public is not told everything about the contents of vaccines
8. The disadvantages of vaccines are not openly reported
9. I could participate in a new vaccine development study (R)
10. I have refused vaccination
11. Vaccines are impure
12. Vaccines often result in serious illness
13. Vaccines put too much strain on the innate immune system
14. Vaccines can be used to benefit governments or other actors and against
ordinary people
15. We are being told that vaccines are useful, but in reality they are used
against people

Vaccine attitudes - Jolley (2014)

I feel uncertain about the potential side-effects of immunizations.
I feel uncertain about the safety of immunizations.
A large number of early vaccinations expose an infant’s immune system to avoidable risks.
Multiple vaccines overwhelm the infant’s immune system.
The side-effects of vaccinations are unforeseeable.
Vaccines lead to allergies.
I feel uncertain about the motives of those involved in immunizations (governments, pharmaceutical companies etc.).
Vaccinations cause the illnesses they are intended to protect against.

Vaccine acceptance instrument - Sarthchandra et al. (2018)

Perceived safety
1. Vaccines are safe
2. Vaccines contain mercury in dangerous amounts [R]
3. Vaccines contain dangerous ingredients [R]
4. Vaccines cause autism [R]

Perceived effectiveness and necessity
5. Some vaccines are unnecessary since they target relatively harmless diseases. [R]
6. Diseases provide better immunity than vaccines do.  [R]
7. Vaccines are effective at preventing diseases. 
8. Many of the illnesses that vaccines prevent are severe.

Acceptance of the selection and scheduling of vaccines
9. We give children the right number of vaccines. 
10. The timing of the current vaccination schedule is appropriate.
11. We give vaccines to children when they are too young.  [R]
12. We give children too many vaccines.  [R]

Positive values and affect towards vaccines
13. I'm morally opposed to vaccinating my child. [R]
14. Vaccines conflict with my belief that children should use natural products and avoid toxins.  [R]
15. Vaccines are a major advancement for humanity. 
16. Vaccines are disgusting to me.  [R]

Perceived legitimacy of authorities to require vaccines
17. The government should not force children to get vaccinated to attend school. [R]
18. My right to consent to medical treatment means that vaccinations should always be voluntary. [R]
19. To protect public health, we should follow government guidelines about vaccines.
20. It is legitimate for government to mandate vaccinations.


Vaccination attitudes examination (VAX) scale - Martin & Petrie (2017)


mistrust of vaccine benefit
I feel safe after being vaccinated [R]
I can rely on vaccines to stop serious infectious diseases [R]
I feel protected after getting vaccinated [R]


worries about unforeseen future effects
Although most vaccines appear to be safe, there may be problems that we have not yet discovered.
Vaccines can cause unforeseen problems in children.
I worry about the unknown effects of vaccines in the future.


concerns about commercial profiteering
Vaccines make a lot of money for pharmaceutical companies, but do not do much for regular people.
Authorities promote vaccination for financial gain, not for people’s health.
Vaccination programs are a big con.


preference for natural immunity
Natural immunity lasts longer than a vaccination.
Natural exposure to viruses and germs gives the safest protection.
Being exposed to diseases naturally is safer for the immune system than being exposed through vaccination.
